at my ad agency neil patel digital we
constantly get clients telling us i need
a lot of
high domain authority links people are
asking for this left and right and
everyone believes that you need that to
rank at the top of google and those are
the only kind of links you need hey
everyone i'm neil patel and today i'm
going to break down if you really need
high domain authority links to rank
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
now if you're probably wondering the
short answer is is yes high domain
authority links do help with rankings
but do you really need all your links to
be high domain authority and i'm going
to break down how you can get that
answer it's not a simple yes or no
because it's going to vary per term that
you're trying to rank for now generally
speaking the better the authority of
links
or sites linking to you the better off
you're gonna do because sites like
wikipedia although those links are no
fault about sites like let's say new
york times or forbes or entrepreneur or
bbc or cnn tend to have more authority
so the links carry more weight
but those links are hard to get and
everyone's aiming for them and you may
not need really that many to rank and
you may not need any at all depending on
the keyword that you're trying to rank
for so let's first break down a keyword
that you may want to rank for now i'm
going to google a random keyword like
dog food right so let's say you want to
rank for dog food
what i want you to do is google for the
term that you want to rank for and pull
up
the first 5 or 10 pages that are ranking
really high up now keep in mind a lot of
the sites that rank may have high domain
authority
and that can skew the results but in
generally speaking i want you to pull up
all the results that are ranking
organically on page one
take them to ubersuggest and put in the
url and you just go to neilpatel.com
ubersuggest now what you'll want to do
is in the left navigation click on seo
explorer then backlinks this is the
backlinks report
let me put in the url here
uh
that's ranking number one make sure it's
selected all or exact url
and then click search and that's it
as you can see domain authority 58
735 links referring domains
this page right here has 124 links from
a domain authority of 1 to 20.
72 links from 21 to 40.
19 links from
41 to 60
14 links from 61 to 80 and only five
domains that are linking them with 81 to
100. so as you can see here majority of
the links and this is for the first
result that's the ranking at the top
majority of links based on this pie
graph it doesn't even look like you know
less than 15 percent what's the total
links so 234 so this is 14 this is 5.
less than 10 of the links
actually have a high domain authority
linking to this url
so now let's go to the next result petco
let's block that
and i'm going to go back to ubersuggest
again you want to look at url click the
search button
type it in
2587 backlinks
similar only eight domains from 81 to
9 from
61 to 80. so very little so you're
talking about 8 plus 9 17
so when i do the rough math
divided by
let's move this
uh 2 5 8 7
and you're looking at less than one
percent of the links have a high domain
authority for this petco url
now let me go to amazon now again i know
petco amazon some of them have high
domain authority
and as you can see with the amazon url
they have a high domain authority
166 backlinks 73 referring domains
let's see only one link has a 81 to 100
domain authority the rest are 21 to 40.
and uh 1 through 20. but again amazon
has a high overall authority here's
purina
let's look that up in uber suggests
domain authority 68 160 174 referring
domains as you can see one domain 81 to
100 and to domain 61 to 80. so that's
three links out of
174.
that's pretty much you know around
one to two percent so that's a really
low number right so when you think about
it
when you're looking at somewhere like
purina they don't have a lot of rich
domain authority backlinks so in general
if you're worrying or
thinking like i need a lot of rich
domain authority links to rank the
biggest trend that you saw with most
these pages that are ranking on page one
majority of their links have low domain
authority don't obsess about domain
authority even though a lot of tools
like moz and us and ahrefs and sem rush
we have our own metrics of domain
authority google doesn't use domain
authority it's just an indicator to show
you that hey this site has more
authority links from it are better but
it doesn't mean that you need tons of
high domain authority links to rank and
there's a lot of cases especially when
you get into longer tail terms and dog
food i would say is a head term and is
competitive but there's a lot of terms
out there that are less competitive than
terms like dog food
so
don't obsess about the domain authority
focus on the sites linking to you and
their relevancy over anything else and
when you're working on your link
building just go out there and get as
many good natural links as possible
create a good product create good
content and that's how you're gonna win
instead of obsessing on your domain
authority if you have any questions
about domain authority or anything
related to seo leave a comment below if
you enjoyed the video like it share it
if you need help with your link building
or just your rankings on google check
out my ad agency neil patel digital
thank you for your time